.TH "pckcp" "1" "2025-08-31" "" ""
.hy
.SH NAME
.PP
pckcp - Tool in command-line to manage common PKGBUILD errors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
pckcp (-hvegc)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Provides a tool to check the validity of a PKGBUILD according to the KCP
standards.
.PP
If flag -e is used, the common errors can be checked and a (potentially)
valid PKGBUILD.new is created (if -o is not used).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f[B]-h, --help\f[R]
Print this help
.TP
\f[B]-v, --version\f[R]
Print version
.TP
\f[B]-e, --edit\f[R]
Interactive edition.
With this option the program suggests you to correct detected errors
during checking and optionnally format the final PKGBUILD.
.TP
\f[B]-f, --format\f[R]
Formats the PKGBUILD file. If output option (-o) is not specified,
standard output is used.
.TP
\f[B]-g, --generate\f[R]
Generate a prototype of PKGBUILD.
It is based on the /etc/kcp/PKGBUILD.commented.kaos.proto by default.
You can change the default prototype in the kcp configuration.
It default writes a new PKGBUILD file (or name of -o option if
specified).
.TP
\f[B]-c, --clean\f[R]
Used with generate, it generates a prototype of PKGBUILD cleaned from
any comment.
.TP
\f[B]-o, --output\f[R]
File’s name of the transformed PKGBUILD. If not used, default depends
of the action: with -g, default is PKGBUILD, with -e, default is
PKGBUILD.new (or other suffix depending of the value of
suffixNewPKGBUILD in section pckcp of the configuration's file), with
-f, default is to print to standard output.
.SH CREDITS
.TP

This is free and unencumbered software released into the public domain.
http://unlicense.org/ for more information.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
For more information regarding kcp, see the following:
.TP
The official code repository at
<git://codeberg.org/bvaudour/kcp>
.TP
You can contact the project by emailing
<benjamin.vaudour\[at]gmx.fr>
.SH REPORTING BUGS
.TP
Bugs in kcp may be reported to the issue-tracker at
<https://github.com/bvaudour/kcp/issues>
